---
layout: post
title:  "Week 3"
date:   2015-06-28 17:00:00
author: ivanmartinvalle
---

This week we got into some more advanced C++ features. We were introduced to C++ lambda expressions, which are essentially inline function definitions. I've spent quite a bit of time using C# and Java lambdas, so I didn't struggle learning how to write and use them in C++. However, C++'s usage of explicit variable capturing helped me further understand how capturing works in other languages. I absolutely love learning about something that accidentally increases my knowledge in another area. We also went over the meaning of 'const'. 'const' is incredibly confusing, so I recommend sitting down in front of a compiler and playing with changing the ordering of 'const' and introducing pointers. It takes lots of practice to really understand this feature. 

We have our first test coming up soon, and I am really nervous. In the last Downing class I took, there was both a multiple choice section and a programming section. I was definitely not a fan of the multiple choice, as most of the questions seemed to be "did you know that in C++ if it is raining on a Tuesday, the following line of code compiles?". It was very nitpicky, and I felt it wasn't a great assessment of what we learned in class. However, Downing has moved to a purely programming based test, which I look forward to. Mostly because I excel at the programming portions of his tests, but also because I expect there to be leniency on forgetting super minor syntax rules.

Tip of the week: Check out [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xnqTKD8uD64) on tips on how to write modern C++. The newest features of C++ give you a chance to make your code safer and much easier to read. The rest of the videos from [CppCon](https://www.youtube.com/user/CppCon) are also an incredible watch if you are interested in advanced C++.