---
layout: post
title:  "Week 5"
date:   2015-07-12 17:00:00
author: ivanmartinvalle
---

Ahh!!! One project ends and another starts. These past couple of projects have been really time consuming. On the last Integer project, my partner and I were changing things in the last hour, which I have never had to do before. Summer classes go by REALLY fast. When taking summer classes, please be sure to check that you indeed have the time do as well as you want to do. Having a full time job plus being in two summer classes (especially programming courses) equals little time for fun :( . There is just 2 more weeks of class. I can see the end.

It's easy to fall behind if you don't stick with it. Lately I have been giving my other class some badly needed attention, and my performance in this class has taken a hit. The quizes in class are getting harder, since I'm not able to devote enough time to the class as necessary.

Downing went over the current project, implementing our own deque, in class this week in high detail. The way he explained it, it seemed so easy. But when I sat down to do it, my brain froze. Pro tip: if Downing draws a picture in class, jot it down. That type of thing probably won't make it onto the class Github, but all the pictures drawn in class give me a much better understanding of a hard process. Hopefully I get this project finished in time!

Tip of the week: GDB. Learn it. Live it. Become it. I spent a lot of time "printf debugging" on this and the last project. I decided to invest the time to debug code through the command line the correct way. GDB helps finds bugs much faster than couts everywhere once you get the hang of it. If you are familiar with debugging through some sort of UI like in Visual Studio and IntelliJ, you will feel right at home. [Here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sCtY--xRUyI) is a link to a very helpful tutorial.